Adding Network Broker tutorial doc: start-guide-for-network-broker.md (#1369)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-ci/network-broker.md

---
slug: network-broker
title: Network broker
hide_title: false
description: Learn how to set up the Semgrep Network Broker, which facilitates secure access between Semgrep and your private network.
tags:
  - Semgrep in CI
  - Network broker
---

# Set up the Semgrep network broker

The Semgrep network broker facilitates secure access between Semgrep and your private network. It accomplishes this by establishing a Wireguard VPN tunnel with the Semgrep infrastructure, then proxying **inbound** (from Semgrep to your network) HTTP requests through this tunnel. This approach allows Semgrep to interact with on-premise resources without having to expose them to the public internet.

Examples of inbound traffic include:

- Pull or merge request (PR or MR) comments

> - JIRA integrations

Reviewer: I'm not sure Jira integration is inbound, is it? Don't we only create issues for now?

Reviewer 2: I think it's inbound to Jira for on-prem deployments?

Reviewer: We don't support on-prem Jira right now (although it is something we're looking at).
This list is from the original NB docs (I was reading them yesterday) so maybe @tpetr can comment on that while he's here :)

    ```
    inbound:
      wireguard:
        localAddress: fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be8:yyyy:0:1
        privateKey: YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY
        peers:
          - publicKey: 4EqJwDZ8X/qXB5u3Wpo2cxnKlysec93uhRvGWPix0lg=
            endpoint: wireguard.semgrep.dev:51820
            allowedIps: fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be9:0000:0000:0000:0001/128
      heartbeat:
        url: http://[fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be9:0000:0000:0000:0001]/ping
      allowlist: []
      gitlab:
        baseUrl: <https://gitlab.xxxx.net/api/v4>
        token: YOUR_TOKEN
    ```

- The `publicKey` should be entered as is:
`4EqJwDZ8X/qXB5u3Wpo2cxnKlysec93uhRvGWPix0lg=`

## Keypairs

The broker requires a Wireguard keypair to establish a secure connection.

To generate a public key:

```
docker run [ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:](<http://ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:latest>)[v0.14.0](<http://ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:v0.14.0>) genkey
```

<aside> 💡 The version in the example is v0.14.0. You can use the latest stable version of the network broker. Check here.
</aside>

To generate a private key:

```

> echo xxxxxxx | sudo docker run -i [ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:v0.14.0](<http://ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:v0.14.0>) pubkey

Reviewer: ```suggestion
echo 'xxxxxxx' | sudo docker run -i [ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:v0.14.0](<http://ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:v0.14.0>) pubkey
```
the original guide mentions this should be in single quotes

```

<aside> 💡 The xxxxx should be the generated public key
</aside>

:::info Tip 
Your public key is safe to share. _Do not_ share your private key with anyone (including Semgrep).
:::

Update the config.yaml with the private key:

> Add the customer public key in the Semgrep Cloud Platform:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the generated public key in the Semgrep Cloud Platform:
```

---
slug: network-broker
title: Semgrep Network Broker
hide_title: false
description: Learn how to set up the Semgrep Network Broker, which facilitates secure access between Semgrep and your private network.
tags:
  - Semgrep in CI
  - Network broker
---

# Set up the Semgrep Network Broker

The Semgrep Network Broker facilitates secure access between Semgrep and your private network. It accomplishes this by establishing a WireGuard VPN tunnel with the Semgrep infrastructure, then proxying **inbound** HTTP requests from Semgrep to your network through this tunnel. This approach allows Semgrep to interact with on-premise resources without exposing them to the public internet.

Examples of inbound traffic include:

- Pull request (PR) or merge request (MR) comments

> - Jira integrations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Webhooks

:::info Subscriber availability
The Semgrep Network Broker is available to Enterprise tier users.
:::

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites and feature availability
```

Maybe also add a very short tidbit on what SCMs this feature is available for use? 
"This feature is available to GitHub and GitLab..."

> - The Semgrep Network Broker is a feature that must be enabled in your Semgrep organization (org) before set up. Contact the Semgrep team on [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> Slack]( https://go.semgrep.dev/slack) or through email [<i class="fa-regular fa-envelope"></i> support@semgrep.com](mailto:support@semgrep.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Semgrep Network Broker is a feature that must be enabled in your Semgrep organization (org) before setup. It is only available to paying customers. Contact the [Semgrep support team](/docs/support) to discuss having it enabled for your organization.
```
Pending checking on who this can be enabled for, but definitely want to say who and link to the support page.

Reviewer: Seems like paying customer is probably fine for now 👍🏻

- **Docker** must be installed on the server where you install the network broker.

## Configure Semgrep Network Broker

> Ensure that you are logged in to and are completing the following steps on the server where you want to run Semgrep Network Broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that you are logged in to the server where you want to run Semgrep Network Broker. Complete the following steps while logged in to that server.
```

> 1. Create a `config.yaml` file similar to the following snippet. The steps required to generate values for the placeholders, such as `YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY`, `YOUR_BASE_URL`, `YOUR_TOKEN`, are provided in subsequent sections of this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `config.yaml` file similar to the following snippet. The steps required to generate values for the placeholders, such as `YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY`, `YOUR_BASE_URL`, `YOUR_TOKEN`, are provided in subsequent steps of this guide.
```

  ```yaml
  inbound:
    wireguard:
      localAddress: fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be8:yyyy:0:1
      privateKey: YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY
      peers:
        - publicKey: 4EqJwDZ8X/qXB5u3Wpo2cxnKlysec93uhRvGWPix0lg=
          endpoint: wireguard.semgrep.dev:51820
          allowedIps: fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be9:0000:0000:0000:0001/128
    heartbeat:
      url: http://[fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be9:0000:0000:0000:0001]/ping
    allowlist: []
    gitlab:
      baseUrl: <https://gitlab.xxxx.net/api/v4>
      token: YOUR_TOKEN
  ```

  The `publicKey` should be entered precisely as follows:

  ```console
  4EqJwDZ8X/qXB5u3Wpo2cxnKlysec93uhRvGWPix0lg=
  ```

1. The broker requires a WireGuard keypair to establish a secure connection. To generate the public key:

>    1. Get the [network broker version](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker/pkgs/container/semgrep-network-broker) you want to use. The format should be similar to `v0.14.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Determine the [network broker version](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker/pkgs/container/semgrep-network-broker) you want to use. The format should be similar to `v0.14.0`.
```

   1. Run the following in the CLI to generate the public key, replacing the placeholder with the network broker version number:
  <pre class="language-console"><code>docker run ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:<span className="placeholder">VERSION_NUMBER</span> genkey</code></pre>

1. Run the following in the CLI to generate the private key, replacing the placeholders with the public key you generated in the previous step and the network broker version number:

  <pre class="language-console"><code>echo `<span className="placeholder">PUBLIC_KEY</span>` | sudo docker run -i ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:<span className="placeholder">VERSION_NUMBER</span> pubkey</code></pre>

  :::info Key sharing 
  Your public key is safe to share. Do **not** share your private key with anyone, including Semgrep.
  :::

1. Update the `config.yaml` file with the private key:

  ```yaml
  inbound:
    wireguard:
      localAddress: fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be8:yyyy:0:1
      privateKey: YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY
      ...
  ```

1. Add the generated public key to the Semgrep Cloud Platform:

>    1. Log into Semgrep Cloud Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Log in to Semgrep Cloud Platform.
```

   2. Navigate to **Settings** > **Broker**.
   3. Paste your public key and click **Add Public Key**.

   ![Screenshot of Semgrep Cloud Platform's Network Broker page](/img/scp-broker.png#md-width)

> 2. Update the `config.yaml` with your GitLab/GitHub URL:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Update the `config.yaml` with your GitLab or GitHub URL:
```

  ```yaml
  # for GitLab 
  gitlab:
    baseUrl: <https://gitlab.exampleCo.net/api/v4>
    token: YOUR_TOKEN

  # for GitHub 
  gitlab:
    baseUrl: <https://github.exampleCo.com/api/v3>
    token: YOUR_TOKEN
  ```

> 1. [Create a GitLab personal access token (PAT)](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html#create-a-personal-access-token) with the `api` scope, and add the token to `config.yaml` using the `token` field:

Reviewer 2: @tpetr which GH access token should be used? Is it just a personal access token as well?

Reviewer 4: Yeah, PAT works.

Reviewer: Given that, we should probably add a link to the GitHub PAT docs too?

  ```yaml
  gitlab:
    baseUrl: <https://gitlab.xxxx.net/api/v4>
    token: YOUR_TOKEN
  ```

> 1. [Convert your deployment ID to hexadecimal](https://www.rapidtables.com/convert/number/decimal-to-hex.html) for use in creating your deployment's local address:

Reviewer: I'm always a little nervous about linking to third-party tools in our docs in case something happens to them. Maybe we could phrase this more carefully, like 
```suggestion
1. Convert your deployment ID to hexadecimal for use in creating your deployment's local address. You can use a tool such as [Decimal to Hexadecimal converter]((https://www.rapidtables.com/convert/number/decimal-to-hex.html)) if needed.
```

1. Create a `config.yaml` file similar to the following snippet. The steps required to generate values for the placeholders, such as `YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY`, `YOUR_BASE_URL`, `YOUR_TOKEN`, are provided in subsequent steps of this guide.

  ```yaml
  inbound:
    wireguard:
      localAddress: fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be8:yyyy:0:1
      privateKey: YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY
      peers:
        - publicKey: 4EqJwDZ8X/qXB5u3Wpo2cxnKlysec93uhRvGWPix0lg=
          endpoint: wireguard.semgrep.dev:51820
          allowedIps: fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be9:0000:0000:0000:0001/128
    heartbeat:
      url: http://[fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be9:0000:0000:0000:0001]/ping
    allowlist: []
    gitlab:
      baseUrl: <https://gitlab.xxxx.net/api/v4>
      token: YOUR_TOKEN
  ```

  The `publicKey` should be entered precisely as follows:

  ```console
  4EqJwDZ8X/qXB5u3Wpo2cxnKlysec93uhRvGWPix0lg=
  ```

1. The broker requires a WireGuard keypair to establish a secure connection. To generate the public key:

   1. Determine the [network broker version](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker/pkgs/container/semgrep-network-broker) you want to use. The format should be similar to `v0.14.0`.

>    1. Run the following in the CLI to generate the public key, replacing the placeholder with the network broker version number:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Run the following command in the CLI to generate the public key, replacing the placeholder with the network broker version number:
```
